## Background

We have seen an exponential increase in the demand of R among a large
and variant set of audiences. People from various domains are keen to
learn it and further improve their skills. This has created a supply and
demand gap which is being filled by various teaching channels. While
there is no dearth of the amount of R teaching material, both in-class
and online, there is still arguably a shortage in skilled R users who
possess quality skills in R. This shortage of qualified personnel and
abundance of self-taught data scientists leads to confusion for
employers as well as prospective employees who have the required
skill-set but no way to differentiate themselves.

## Proposal

There is no system today to certify qualified R Professionals. The
R-Consortium, as the governing body for the R community, needs to step
in as the neutral agency before another third-party comes in with a
similar certification mechanism and tries to fill this gap. From a
competitive perspective, SPSS and SAS already has a certification
mechanism in place.

## Moving Parts

We understand that there are multiple moving pieces and we have
identified 3 main areas to bucket them –

1\. Specialization

2\. Training

3\. Testing

4\. Certification

We have also taken a stab at the sub categories under those buckets and
the multiple paths that we can have for those functional areas that
would allow the R Community to solve for the above mentioned challenges.

![The likely path of certification to be taken in the initial
cut](Initial_Path_Visual.PNG
"The likely path of certification to be taken in the initial cut")

## Key decisions to be made

The WG will work on the following elements regarding R certification:

1\. Financials –

  - Cost
      - Vendor Cost
      - Consortium Cost
      - Student Cost
  - Profits

2\. Marketing and Promotions 3. Testing

  - Pass/Fail outcome
  - Percentage – 0 to 100%
  - Certification Levels

4\. How long the certificate remains valid 5. Partnerships

  - Training
  - Testing
  - Certifications

6\. Curriculum –

  - Generic
  - Pharmacy
  - Financial
  - Visualizations
  - Others

7\. Phased Approach

  - Identify the next couple of phases
  - Phase 1
  - Phase 2

## Members

  - David Smith (Microsoft)
  - Jeremy Reynolds (Microsoft)
  - Jonathan Cornelissen (Datacamp)
  - Martijn Theuwissen (DataCamp)
  - Mark Sellors (Mango Solution)
  - Aimee Gott (Mango Solutions)
  - *Hadley Wickham (ISC liason, RStudio)*
  - Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel (RStudio)
  - Dinesh Nirmal (IBM)
  - Trishan de Lanerolle (Linux Foundation)
  - **MeharPratap Singh (ProCogia)**
  - JuanPablo Murillo (ProCogia)

## Milestones

### Achieved

## Open Questions

## Minutes

#### 2/1 Working Group Meeting

Attendees: Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel, Trishan de Lanerolle, Mehar Singh,
JuanPablo Murillo, Mark Sellors

  - Identified tech representatives in partner companies to collaborate
    on domain objective for certification.
  - Discussed potential focuses of certification and certification
    seeker’s profile.
  - Agreed on reaching out to connections at Linux Foundation for their
    expertise in technical certification logistics and setup.
  - Updated deadline of domain objective completion to 2/28 and deadline
    of opening domain objective to R community in mid
March.

#### 2/13, 2/22, 3/1 Technical Representative Meetings - Domain Objective

Attendees: Richie Cotton, Aimee Gott, Garrett Grolemund, Mehar Singh,
JuanPablo Murillo, Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel, Jeremy Reynolds, Nick Carchedi

  - Developed a comprehensive content outline, which breaks R
    programming proficiency into several competency areas.
  - Put together a list of packages/libraries to accompany content
    outline.
  - Discussed and proposed a composite score in addition to a pass/fail
    final score. Composite score would take into account mastery within
    each competency area of the outline.

#### 3/17 Working Group Meeting

Attendees: Richie Cotton, Aimee Gott, Mehar Singh, JuanPablo Murillo,
Mine Cetinkaya-Rundel, Mark Sellors, Nick Carchedi, Clyde Seepersad,
David Smith

  - Updated larger group of recent progress with regard to certification
    topics and scoring approach.
  - Shared completed certification content outline and package list
    internally with the Working Group.
  - Discussed financial details of launching a performance based
    certification with an expert in the field.
