Meeting: 26Oct2022

--> Need to have something working for the outside world 
	--> Show then a rendered version for some of the exam questions 

--> Update the project board for the next steps on the board meeting 
	--> Joe R is aiming to have people here and able to see what we have in working progress

--> Summary of working progress 
	--> Private GitHub repo for a beta test??
	--> On hook next month for board to put into money towards this 
	--> Whole certification for the efforts for proof of concept 

--> Concerned about the number of people in the working group 
	--> Rajni, Kieran are firm members


Joe:

Talk to Elisa about setting up a private repo for the exam 
	--> Control the exam for a beta tester
	--> Build a render for GitHub document 
	--> Just define where the interface needs to be 
		--> Protoype is to have some people to assess the test and get idea of appropriate 
			--> See about how hosting is done with the Linux Foundation (Joe Action Item. Will write to Clyde)




R Consortium: 

Laura is the marketing committee for ProCogia (within December)
	--> Herd all the cats that need to be put in. 2 comittees (ISC and marketing comittee)
		--> Needs to be filled by R Consortium Members
		--> Social infrastructure and have heads in the game
